in 2003 reporter Jefferson Morley
brought a lawsuit against the Central
Intelligence Agency CIA Morley sought to
get important documents related to the
assassination of John F Kennedy released
to the public as of 2016
the CIA has still refused to release
these documents the following is a legal
declaration which was submitted as part
of Morley's lawsuit it has been made by
a former congressional investigator who
like Morley also found himself
stonewalled by the CIA while trying to
look into the murder of JFK in the
United States District Court for the
District of Columbia
Jefferson Morley plaintiff the Central
Intelligence Agency defendant civil
action number 0 3 - 0 2 5 4 5 RJL
declaration of dan L hardway 1 my name
is dan L hardway I am over the age of 18
years I am competent to testify in this
matter and I make this declaration to
the best of my knowledge and memory - I
am an attorney admitted to practice in
the states of West Virginia North
Carolina Indiana and Florida and before
the Supreme Court of the United States
the United States Tax Court the United
States Court of Appeals for the District
of Columbia Circuit and the United
States Court of Appeals for the Fourth
Circuit and United States district
courts in the District of Columbia North
Carolina and West Virginia
3 I am currently engaged in the private
practice of law with my office located
in Cowan West Virginia I was clerk for
the West Virginia Supreme Court of
Appeals after graduating from Cornell
Law School in January 1981 I have been
continuously engaged in the private
practice of law since 1982 for from July
of 1977 until December of 1978 I was
employed as a researcher on the staff of
the United States House of
Representatives
lect Committee on assassinations HS CA
in that capacity I had a top-secret
security clearance and during a major
portion of my employment had access to
unredacted Central Intelligence Agency
records
v my primary area of responsibility and
research for the HSC a was the
possibility of any relationship of any
nature between the CIA and Lee Harvey
Oswald lho with special focus on the
CIA's awareness of and reporting on la
Cho's activities in Mexico City implicit
in that focus was the issue of whether
the evidence from Mexico indicated any
operational connection between lho and
the CIA six my research for the HSC a
also covered areas related to people of
interest including David at Lee Phillips
and William Harvey among others and CIA
assassination programs
I was also tasked with research and
analysis of the response of the CIA's
Mexico City station la chose trip to
Mexico City and to the assassination
seven my work for the HSC a resulted in
many reports memoranda and other
documents some of which have been
Declassified in whole or in part and
some of which have been apparently
either lost or destroyed my primary work
product for the HSC a was as co-author
with
edwin lopez of a draft of a section for
the HSC a's final report on the CIA and
lho in mexico city which remained
classified in full until 1996 the draft
after further declassification in 2003
was published by the Mary Farrell
Foundation press as Oswald the CIA and
Mexico City the Lopez hardway report aka
the Lopez report 2003 release 8 after
HSC a staff was provided with unexpected
two CIA documents in 1977 I spent many
hours working with CIA files in a small
office at CIA headquarters in Langley
Virginia initially we were provided with
full access to every file that we asked
to see in a reasonably prompt manner
after we made the request nine initially
Regis Blodgett handled our requests for
files at CIA headquarters and we worked
directly with him when he was
transferred to work at the CIA's room at
the HSC a staff offices we were assigned
to clerks whose names I do not recall
who were our primary face-to-face
contacts at the CIA in requesting and
reviewing files 10 beginning in may of
1978 the CIA assigned Jorge Johanna DS
to handle the Azon with Edwin Lopez and
me in the summer of 1978 mr. Joanna DS
began to change the wave file access was
handled we no longer received prompt
responses to our requests for files and
what we did receive no longer seemed to
provide the same complete files that we
had been seeing the obstruction of our
efforts by mr. Joanna DS escalated over
the summer finally resulting in a
refusal to provide unexpurgated access
to files in violation of the Memorandum
of Understanding previously agreed to by
the HS CA and the CIA eleven during the
course of the spring and summer of 1978
I had been looking into several areas of
research which were actively impeded by
mr. Joanna DS direction
these included back-channel
communications methods used by the CIA's
Mexico City Station William Harvey's
office of security files and his
continuing relationship with certain
mafia figures the use of an impulse
camera to photograph the Cuban consulate
in Mexico City missing production from
one of the photographic installations
that covered the Soviet embassy in
Mexico City as well as the impulse
camera at the Cuban consulate and David
at Lee Phillips possible involvement in
stories about lho the
appeared after the assassination of John
F Kennedy it is this last area that is
particularly relevant to the information
sought by mr. Morley in this case twelve
I did not do any research aimed at
George Johnny D's or his activities in
1963 because while working for the HSC a
in 1977 to 1978 I was not informed that
he had had any involvement with any
aspect of the Kennedy case and I had no
basis to even suspect that he had in
researching possible connections between
post assassination stories about lho and
David at Lee Phillips I did little if
any research that I recall into the
directorial revolutionary os2 until dr e
because among other reasons the CIA had
firmly represented to the HSC a that all
ties between the d-r-e and the CIA had
been terminated prior to 1963 thirteen
my research into what had happened to
the photographs produced by an impulse
camera aimed at the Cuban consulate
during the time lho was alleged to have
visited that installation in Mexico City
led to a broader inquiry into
back-channel communications available to
the CIA officers in Mexico City in 1963
I was in particular looking at possible
communication methods between the CIA's
Mexico City station and its JM waves
stationed in Miami Florida and possible
records that may have been generated by
such methods my research into this area
consistently met stone walls of denial
of any information being available
fourteen one way that communication can
occur was by face-to-face meetings
I learned that David at Lee Phillips
contrary to his sworn testimony to the
HSC a and his first executive session
appearance had not been in Mexico City
at the time of La Cho's alleged visit to
that city he had been on a temporary
duty assignment at CIA headquarters and
at the CIA JM waves
station in Miami it was shortly before
or during this trip that David at Lee
Phillips was promoted from chief of
covert action in Mexico City to chief of
Cuban operations in both positions he
was responsible for anti-castro
propaganda operations
I wanted to research the question of
coordination of propaganda and
disinformation operations between the
Mexico City and Miami stations but did
not make much progress in that area due
to mr. Joanna Dee's lack of cooperation
and responsiveness and the waning of
time for the continued existence of the
HSC a with its concommittant pressure to
produce a final report as I recall at
this point my efforts to get the CIA to
produce David at Lee Phillips travel
vouchers operational files and expense
reports also bore little fruit 15 during
the course of my research I was able
however before my access was delayed
curtailed and then cut off to review CIA
201 files on many of the individuals who
had been sources for stories that
appeared in the immediate aftermath of
the assassination tying lho to Castro or
the fair play for Cuba committee I was
able to establish that most of the
sources of the stories were or had been
agents or assets used at one time or
another by David at Lee Phillips 16
before our unexpurgated access was cut
off by Joanna Dee's I had been able to
document links between David Phillips
and most of the sources of the
disinformation that came out immediately
after the assassination about Oswald and
his pro-castro proclivities I confronted
Phillips with those in an interview at
our offices on August 24th 1978 Phillips
was extremely agitated by that line of
questioning but was forced to admit that
many of the sources were not only former
assets that he had managed in the late
50s and early 1960s but were also assets
whom he was personally managing in the
fall of 1960
three mr. Phillips was asked but could
not explain why the information that
came from anti-castro Cuban groups and
individuals pointing to Cuban
connections all seemed to come from
assets he handled personally but
acknowledged that was the case mr.
Phillips also acknowledged that
back-channel communication methods
existed but denied that any were used in
Mexico City an extensive collection of
materials I used in preparation for this
interview of David Phillips have not
been found so far as I know the
memorandum on that interview has not
been located in the official records of
the HSC a although a partial copy has
been circulated in the JFK assassination
research community to the best of my
knowledge at the time I left the
employment of the HSC a both the
preparation materials and the memorandum
on the interview were in the possession
of the CIA in their safe room located at
the HSC A's offices seventeen mr.
Phillips was not questioned about any
possible relationship or work with
George Joanna DS because at the time I
had no reason to think there could be
any connection and had no information
that they had ever worked together or in
closely related areas of endeavor 18 the
CIA considered my research and requests
to be aggressive harassment the CIA
worked hard to discredit me and Edwin
Lopez with our superiors at the
committee for example on August 18th
1978 Scott Breckinridge George Joanna DS
superior officer met with Gary Cornwall
and told him that Edwin Lopez and I
quote labored under a burden of
credibility in the agency and are so
callow that we the agency did not want
to trust them with the kind of
information that they were seeking and
quote when Gary indicated that the CIA
should tell him what the source of their
concern with us was Breckenridge notes
that he quote replied that it was
primarily their attitude
and conduct and I did not feel it
constructive to discuss it further end
quote
19 G Robert Blakey the chief counsel of
the HSC a informed the members of the
committee about the CIA's resistance to
the research being conducted by me and
Edwin Lopez
not long after Scott Breckenridge's
conversation with Gary Cornwall
he said the kind of information the CIA
was concerned about may have been either
that quote they are terribly concerned
that we are looking into something and
we'll find something wrong or quote we
are touching on very sensitive issues of
agency performance and sensitive sources
and methods end quote
xx the area of our research that seemed
to create the most concern for David at
Lee Phillips was the research into his
possible connections with the sources of
stories about la chose pro-castro
activities after the assassination I
find it very interesting that the person
the CIA brought in to curtail our
investigation as has now been learned
was probably the second most
knowledgeable person in the CIA about
the CIA's 1963 anti-castro propaganda
and disinformation operations George
Joanna teased the CIA has acknowledged
that George Joanna Dee's was serving
undercover in his assignment to work as
a liaison with the HSC a in other words
the CIA has acknowledged that they hid
their HSC a liaisons true identity and
experience as a seasoned disinformation
officer from the HSC a witch was
investigating the CIA and assigned him
undercover to work with the primary
researchers who were looking into the
area about which he was most
knowledgeable 21 we have since 1978
learned that George Joanna DS was
running the propaganda shop at the CIA's
Miami JM wave station in 1963 it is
extremely unlikely that mr. Joanna DS
could have occupied that position and
not have known and worked with David at
Lee Phillips in addition in 1963 we now
know George Joanna DS was the case
officer handling the d-r-e in 1977 the
CIA specifically denied that d-r-e had a
case officer assigned when asked that
question by the HSC a the chief counsel
for the HSC a requested all the agency
files on the d-r-e and its members as
early as March of 1978 that request
included a demand that the CIA identify
any employees who had in the period from
1960 to 1964 worked with the d-r-e after
that initial request for records at
least two additional requests were made
in May and July of 1978 the CIA
repeatedly assured the HSC a that they
had no contact with the d-r-e in 1963
having severed all contacts in April of
that year contrary to the CIA's
representations the leaders of the d-r-e
in interviews with HSC a staff indicated
that they worked with the CIA case
officer in 1963 the CIA assured the HSC
a they would search their records to try
to identify such an officer the CIA
employee
who advised the HSC a chief counsel that
they could find no record of any such
case officer was George Johanna DS 22
one possible inference from the known
data at this point is that the CIA
brought someone out of retirement who
knew where to not let us look and he
impeded and eventually shut down our
research his specific work in regard to
my research was commanded by his
superior in his annual performance
review from 1978 in that review Johanna
DS was commended for quote the firm
position he Johanna DS took with the
young investigators that if the peculiar
nature of the work did not call on mr.
Johanna DS for all the talents of his
wide experience at nonetheless was his
experience and quick perceptions that
ensured a superior performance end quote
23 that mr. Johanna DS primary task was
to deal with the research being
conducted by me and Edwin Lopez was
confirmed by G Robert Blakey former
chief counsel to the HSC a who said in
quote George Joanna DS was brought out
of retirement by the agency to
specifically work as a liaison with our
committee he was specifically tasked
with dealing mainly with dan hard way
and Edwin Lopez but he also lied
directly to me and quote 24 in addition
to being a primary source of stories
about lho in the days after the
assassination the d-r-e also had a
highly visible encounter with lho in New
Orleans in September 1963 George Joanna
T's performance evaluation dated July
31st 1963 reports that joanna DS has
quote done an excellent job in the
handling of a significant student exile
group which hitherto had successfully
resisted any important degree of control
end quote anyone who is familiar with
intelligence agencies disinformation
operations and the details of La chose
encounter with D re and New Orleans
cannot help but see the similarities
between the two raising even more
serious questions about mr. joanna DS
and his role in anti-castro and anti
cuban disinformation and propaganda
operations in 1963 25 David Phillips
recruited a group of students in Havana
to work against Castro while Phillips
was serving under deep cover in Havana
in the late 1950s at the time the group
was known as the direct Oreo
revolutionary Oh or dr Phillips was the
dr's
first case officer when the dr's
leadership fled Cuba in 1960 William
Kent who was very close to Phillips and
worked with him organized them into an
effective organization in Florida known
as the direct Oreo revolutionary os2
dental or d-r-e
the d-r-e was headquartered in Miami but
had branches in other places including
New Orleans 26 the week after the Cuban
Missile Crisis ended in October 1962 an
article appeared in The Washington
evening star newspaper alleging there
were still Russian missiles hidden in
Cuba the story ran with a front-page
headline the d-r-e was the source of the
story shortly afterward the leader of
the d-r-e appeared on NBC's Today Show
and claimed to have seen with his own
eyes nuclear missiles still hidden in
caves and hills in Cuba 27 most of the
funding for the d-r-e
in the 1960 to 1964 period was provided
by the CIA but the organization resisted
agency control Richard Helms the then
head of the agency's covert action arm
met with the leader of the d-r-e in 1962
after the Missile Crisis Helms promised
the d-r-e
that he would appoint a case officer who
would be personally and directly
responsible to him Helms appointed
George
Joanna DS Joanna DS work with d-r-e was
considered to have been very good and
successful he began working with the
group in late 1962 as case officer for a
quote student project involving
political action propaganda intelligence
collection and hemisphere wide apparatus
and quote the d-r-e
by January of 1963 he was commended for
quote resolving complicated problems
involving control of an unruly group end
quote in July of 1963 his fitness report
noted that Joanna DS quote has done an
excellent job in the handling of a
significant student exile group which
hitherto had successfully resisted any
important degree of control end quote
he was promoted to take over as head of
the political warfare branch of the
CIA's Miami station in other words he
became the manager of the propaganda
operations and the only organization
that we know
that he retained under his direct
control was dr e 28 Joe and Edie's
fitness report dated May 15 1964
covering the period from April 1 1963 to
March 31 1964 reveals that in that time
frame he had been promoted to head the
covert action branch of the Miami
station while remaining the senior case
officer for d-r-e
the report praises joanna DS for the
quality and quantity of his propaganda
and political action programs and his
quote ability to translate policy
directives into meaningful action by all
of his assets end quote
29 in August 1963 lho had an encounter
with dr e representatives in new orleans
that encounter resulted not only in
widespread publicity in new orleans at
the time including newspaper articles
television coverage and radio interviews
it also resulted in the first reports
trying to tie lho to castro after the
assassination of john kennedy d
re-released their information the day of
the assassination and it was covered in
both the Miami Herald and the Washington
Post
the next day 30 the CIA never told the
Warren Commission about their support of
and work with the d-r-e
in 1963 the CIA never told the Senate
Select Committee to study governmental
operations with respect to intelligence
activities the Church Committee about it
the assassinations record Review Board
ARR be asked the agency about D re the
CIA initially told the ARR be the same
thing they told the HSC a the agency had
no employee and contact with D re in
1963 the ARR be however an examination
of Joannie DS CIA personnel file
discovered it's clear indication that
joanna DS was the d-r-e case officer in
1963 31 in the early 1960s
David Phillips was working at
headquarters where he along with cord
Meyer developed the first disinformation
operations aimed at the fair play for
Cuba committee during the Bay of Pigs
Phillips was in charge of anti-castro
propaganda operations at headquarters as
such he worked closely with William Kent
who was his counterpart at JM wave in
Miami
footnote ID at page 73 William Kent used
the cover name Doug Gupton in the field
exhibit 1 Bates page number 0 0 0 0 8 5
end footnote Phillips described their
working relationship as very close
Kent acknowledged that when he was
running propaganda operations in Miami
David Phillips had been his immediate
supervisor he said he was in contact by
telephone with Phillips while in that
position and that Phillips visited Miami
quote quite often end quote
he kept Phillips informed of the
propaganda operations he was running in
Miami
Phillips work on Cuban disinformation
continued after his transfer to Mexico
City in 1961 until he left Mexico City
in 1965 32 in the fall of 1962 when
Joanna DS was handpicked by Richard
Helms as the d-r-e case officer he
replaced Ross Crozier in Miami
Crozier had been brought in earlier as
the d-r-e case officer to assist Kent
Joanna DS reported directly to Helms
Joanna DS as registered pseudonym was
Walter de newbie his supervisor was Kent
33 at some point between July 31 1963
and May 15 1964 Joanne Dedes replaced
Kent as chief of covert operations at JM
wave while the scant release of
documents on Joe and Edie's makes it
impossible to pinpoint at the time of
this Kent references in JM wave files
and after 7:25 63 by October 1963 the
files currently available indicate
that Kent was then working at the covert
action desk of the Western Hemisphere
division at CIA headquarters
it is reasonable therefore to presume
that Johanna DS became the director of
covert operations at JM wave sometime
between the end of July and the
beginning of October 1963 footnote this
is supported by the next fitness report
available for joanna DS covering the
period 1st April 1963 and 31st March
1964 this report states that the quote
period covered by this Fitness report
represents Johanna D's initial agency
exposure to those first echelon
management responsibilities which are
implicit in a branch chiefs assignment
end quote
fitness reports RI f-104 - 1 0 3 0 4 - 1
0 0 0 0 exhibit 1 Bates page number 0 0
0 0 0 8 end footnote as that director he
is said to have had quote a distinct
flair for political action operations
and can translate policy directives into
meaningful action programs end quote as
director of covert action Johanna DS
only retained direct responsibility for
one operation the student project
involving quote distribution of printed
propaganda production of radio programs
and the development of political action
programs
end quote 34 to summarize what we now
know the d-r-e originated as the dr
under the tutelage of David Phillips in
Havana in the late 1950s William Kent
took over running the group now known as
the d-r-e
once they had fled from Havana to Miami
in his position he was responsible to
Phillips Crozier came in to assist Kent
with his workload Kent and Crozier were
not too successful with the hard to
control group and Richard Helms gave the
d-r-e an officer responsible directly to
him which officer was Joanna DS but
Joanne Dedes is performance
evaluations indicate that his immediate
supervisor prior to October 1963 was
Kent we do not know what working
relationship Joe and edie's had with
Philips either directly or indirectly
through Kent it is unlikely that Philips
did not continue to be involved in or at
least kept apprised of operations of a
group that he had started and nurtured
both directly and indirectly which
continued to be directly active in his
primary area of responsibility
anti-castro propaganda indeed it would
be in keeping with what is known if he
used that group in operations against
the fair play for Cuba committee or that
he continued to be involved in
disinformation operations aimed at the
group having designed to the first 135
on September 16 1963 the CIA informed
the FBI that it was considering action
to counter the activities of the fair
play for Cuba committee FPC C in foreign
countries in New Orleans on September 17
1963 oswald applied for and received a
Mexican travel visa footnote
interestingly enough the person in line
in front of Oswald to apply for a visa
was William Gaudet a known CIA agent
Gaudette claimed that this was merely a
coincidence HSC a report pages to 18
through 219 in the footnote on September
27 oz Wald arrived in Mexico City on
that day and the following day Oswald or
someone impersonating him may have
visited the Cuban consulate on those
same days the Mexico City CIA station
was testing an impulse camera in their
photo surveillance operation aimed at
the door of the Cuban consulate sometime
in late September Phillips
left Mexico City on a temporary duty
assignment at CIA headquarters footnote
we do not know the date he left Mexico
City a cable from headquarters to Mexico
City dated September 30th 1963 indicates
that Phillips was on that day
TDY at HQ phillips executive session
testimony page 54 25 1978 exhibit 1
bates page number 0 0 0 8 2 & footnote
it is at this time that phillips was
promoted to chief of anti-castro
operations in mexico city the cuba desk
on October 1 the Mexico City station
sent bulk materials to headquarters by
an untraceable transmittal manifest in a
diplomatic pouch quote to be held in
registry until picked up by Michael C
choten presently TDY HQs footnote record
number one zero four one zero five zero
zero one zero zero seven seven bulk
materials being sent under transmittal
manifest CIA October 1 1963 Michael C
choten was David at Lee Phillips is
registered CI a pseudonym Exhibit one
Bates
page numbers 0 0 0 1 1 4 - 0 0 0 1 1 5
TD y HQ s means he was temporarily
assigned to duty at CIA headquarters in
Langley Virginia in footnote the HSC a
was not able to find out what was in the
pouch on October 8th 1963 HQ sent a
cable to JM wave advising them that
Phillips would arrive there the
following day for a two-day visit so in
the fall of 1963 Kent was promoted from
JM wave to WH /ca in HQ Johanna DS was
promoted to Kent's old position in JM
wave and Phillips was promoted to the
Cuban desk in Mexico City in August lho
and D re had had their encounter with
its resultant publicity in New Orleans
in September the CIA notified the FBI
about exporting their successful but
unspecified domestic anti FPC C overseas
the day after the CIA notice oswald
applied for
Mexico visa in New Orleans standing in
line behind an acknowledged CIA agent
Oswald or someone impersonating him
visited or at least appears in the CIA
telephone tap records as visiting the
Cuban consulate on September 27 and 28
those days are the days that the CIA
Mexico City station tested an impulse
camera to photograph people using the
door of the Cuban consulate that Oswald
would have had to have used the impulse
camera generated over 10 feet of 16
millimeter film that has disappeared
Phillips was TDY at headquarters where
the Mexico station sent him an
untraceable transmittal manifest with
unspecified bulk materials to be
delivered to him personally from HQ
Phillips arrived in Miami on October 9
where he spent two days TDY
at JM wave in Miami Florida the CIA's
large covert action station on his way
back to Mexico City
36 these now known facts lead to
inevitable questions were the promotions
rewards for a successful disinformation
operation aimed at the FPC see in New
Orleans an operation that the agency
thought it could export to Mexico while
TDY did Phillips meet with Kent at HQ
did he meet with Joanna DS in Miami did
they review the results of a
disinformation and dangle operation they
had just run in Mexico City their first
attempt to export the successful
domestic anti F PCC disinformation
operation footnote a dangle is an
operation run by an intelligence agency
where a controlled agent or asset is
offered to a foreign intelligence
service as a potential recruit of the
Foreign Service
if the dangle is taken and the person
recruited then the original intelligence
agency can use the agent as a double
agent to feed disinformation to the
foreign intelligence service a dangle
structured such as Oswald's visits to
the Soviet and Cuban facilities can also
serve the purpose of allowing the first
intelligence service
to monitor the reaction of the foreign
service to the person presenting himself
by using other agents already in place
electronic surveillance etc so as to
facilitate understanding of the foreign
services processes and to facilitate
planning of future operations while
Philips frequently lied about Oswald and
Mexico City in a footnote in a
little-known book he self-published he
once said quote I was an observer of
Cuban and Soviet reaction when Lee
Harvey Oswald contacted their embassies
end quote David at Lee Phillips
secretary war Diaries my adventures in
combat espionage operations and covert
action 166 note stone trail press 1988
exhibit 1 baits pages number 0 0 0 1 2 5
- 0 0 0 1 2 7 the chapter of the book in
which the footnote occurs was first
published in an article which did not
include the quoted footnote about Allen
Dulles the great white case officer in
the first issue of the International
Journal of intelligence and
counterintelligence spring 1986 exhibit
1 baits pages number 0 0 0 1 2 8 - 0 0 0
1 3 4 the article is available at WWE
and F online.com it is particularly
interesting on many levels
that Phillips here phrased his
involvement as observing the Cuban and
Soviet reactions to Oswald's visit
exactly what you would expect him to be
doing if Oswald was a
counterintelligence dangled end footnote
did they review the production from the
impulse camera was that cameras
production the bulk material in the
pouch we don't know the answers because
the questions were never asked George Jo
and edie's shut down the HSC a
investigation into this area before this
level of detail could be discovered and
connected given all this a reasonable
researcher has to ask whether the Oswald
visit in Mexico City was part of an
intelligence operation that had
both counterintelligence and propaganda
purposes it also in this context becomes
appropriate to ask whether there has
been an active coverup and whether
George Joanna Dee's undercover
assignment to work with the HSC a was
part of that cover-up 37 I believe that
what I learned in my work for the HSC a
and the additional information released
in the years since that is related to
that work puts me in a unique position
in evaluating the relevance importance
and potential public value in the
information sought by Jefferson Morley
in his Freedom of Information Act foi a
request that led to this litigation I
believe that the information in the
preceding paragraphs provide context
helpful to the evaluation of the
potential public benefit of the
information sought by mr. Morley 38
within the context of these now known
facts the potential public benefit of
the information sought by Jefferson
Morley's foi a request should be clear
and obvious we live in a time when there
is great controversy about the role of
intelligence agencies in our society
where congressional oversight of those
agencies is subject to conflict and
debate about their effectiveness and
where questions linger in regard to the
assassination of a popular president 53
years ago 39 in regard to the issues of
1963 there would be great public benefit
to knowing whether lho had been involved
wittingly or unwittingly in an
intelligence operation even without
settlement of that ultimate question
additional information about what George
Joanna Dee's was doing in 1963 in
particular with the d-r-e in New Orleans
would go a long way to providing insight
into that ultimate question similarly
being able to explore the relationship
between David at Lee Phillips and George
Joanna T's would benefit the public by
either confirming or disproving vital
aspects of the events of 1963
forty issues relating to the use of
George Joanna T's in an undercover
operation assigned as liaison to the HSC
a were also addressed in mr. Morley's
foi a request disclosure of that
information would be of extreme public
benefit on several grounds the CIA
recently was accused of spying on the
Senate Intelligence Committee in this
case the CIA has admitted to running an
undercover agent in an investigation of
the CIA by a congressional committee any
details released about the nature of
that operation would be great public
benefit given the subjects the committee
researchers were looking into and the
hidden background of George Joni T's in
those events any revelation of details
regarding either what mr. Joanna DS did
in regard to the HSC a investigation or
what he was doing with David Utley
Phillips in 1963 would benefit the
public by clarifying major issues that
remain open in regard to the Kennedy
assassination and by either alerting the
people of this country that the CIA has
subverted congressional investigations
or by helping to assure them that it has
not the CIA recently admitted in a
Declassified historical article that
they participated in a benign cover-up
of facts during the Warren Commission
investigation of the assassination of
John F Kennedy resulting in extensive
traditional and internet press coverage
similar public interest abides in
whether there was also a cover-up of
facts involving the CIA's work with the
HSC a disclosure of the information
requested by mr. Morley would also
benefit the public by leading to
disclosure of information contributing
to an understanding of whether the CIA
similarly covered up information in the
investigation conducted by the HSC a
confirmation of such a cover-up would
benefit the public by providing at least
a basis for strengthening oversight of
intelligence agencies confirmation that
there was not such a cover-up could work
towards restoration of trust in both the
intelligence agencies and our government
and its democratic institutions
41 the documents sought by mr. Morley in
his foi a request had the potential for
benefit to the public in all the ways
discussed above as well as in other
unenumerated ways specifically documents
that could have provided such potential
beneficial information should have been
provided in response to the requests set
forth in items numbered 7 9 10 11 12 13
14 and 15 of his foi a request of July 4
2003 had these requests yielded
documents they would have been of great
public benefit in clarifying issues in
regard to the Kennedy assassination
especially the roles and possible
relationships of lho and the CIA and the
facts about what actually happened in
New Orleans and Mexico City in the late
summer and fall of 1963 documents that
could have provided such potential
beneficial information should have been
provided in response to mr. Morley's
July 4 2003 request for the records
described in requests number 7 8 10 16
and 17 had these requests produced
documents those documents could have
been of great public benefit in
resolving issues about whether the CIA
subverted the HSC a investigation into
the events in New Orleans and Mexico
City and the possibility that there was
a relationship between the CIA and lho
42 further examples of the possible
public benefit of the documents sought
by mr. Morley's request can be seen from
my perspective from some of the
information provided by the CIA's Vaughn
index while most if not all of the
documents summarized in the index
indicate they would have information
relevant to the issues discussed above a
particular interest from my perspective
our documents numbered one one nine nine
nine seven eight one one six one four
nine zero one one five three two four
nine one one six one four eight eight
and one one five three two four eight
forty-three document number one one nine
nine nine seven eight is an 8 17 1978
memo for the record reinvestigation of
third party the date of the document
indicates that it was generated between
the time I interviewed Barnea dalgo on 7
28 1978 and David at Lee Phillips his
second appearance before the HSC a an
executive session on 8 10 1978 Barney
dalgo was interviewed because he had
said that he personally knew Maurice
Bishop whom he said worked for the CIA
but was not David Ed Lee Phillips the
memorandum is also dated shortly before
my last interview with Phillips on 8 24
1978 a major issue I was addressing
along with other staff members was
whether David at Lee Phillips who was
under active investigation by the HSC a
staff used the name Maurice Bishop
either as a pseudonym or as an
operational cover name the Vaughn index
document description indicates that the
document was denied in full because it
quote contains information about Joanna
Dee's interaction with a third party who
was under investigation end quote
44 document number one one six one four
nine zero is George Joanna DS 9 20 1978
fitness report which was withheld in
full
we know that CIA fitness reports
routinely contain detailed descriptions
of the employees specific duties and
activities during the covered period
this Fitness report is written in
September of 1978
not long after mr. Joanna DS began his
job undercover as a liaison with the HSC
a a matter of extreme public interest
and very shortly after the staff wrapped
up its investigation into David Antley
Phyllis the Vaughan index document
description indicates that the document
was denied in full because it is quote
an evaluation of Joanna Dee's job
performance during a certain agency
assignment end quote this document is
in my opinion one of the most vital
withheld documents in the JFK case and
is of incredible potential public
significance the document if released
should shed light on the issue of
whether the CIA actively sought to
subvert the HSC a investigation and
helped to answer the pressing public
question of whether Johanna DS is quote
certain agency assignment end quote
at that time was to subvert the HSC a
investigation 45 document number one one
five three two forty nine is a form
discussing intelligence methods read
Johanna DS dated to nine nineteen
seventy-eight this document is
particularly interesting because
allegedly at this point Johanna DS was
in retirement according to the CIA's
version of events
Johanna DS was brought out of retirement
in mid-may of 1978 to serve as liaison
with the HSC a if that is so then what
intelligence methods regarding Johanna
T's were discussed or detailed on this
form the documents public significance
is in addressing the CIA's use of
Johanna DS in an undercover operation
while he served as liaison to the HSC
a46
documents numbered respectively one one
six one four eight eight and one one
five three two four eight are another
George Johanna Dee's fitness report one
one six one four eight eight and another
form discussing intelligence methods
read Joanne eighties one one five three
two four eight but in the case of these
two documents even the date of the
document is withheld given that the CIA
has not released mr. Joe any teases
fitness report that would have covered
the period when Lee Harvey Oswald was in
New Orleans interacting with the Joanna
DS run D re the document becomes of
extreme public interest and import if
this document is not the fitness report
for that time period then it is still of
significance in that it would detail
additional information about mr. Joe and
edie's his role and duties in the CIA
and his potential involvement with other
persons of interest in the Kennedy
investigation similar considerations
apply to document number one one five
three to four 847 documents in the
Vaughn index that are dated in 1963 and
1964 have similar indicators of
significant interest 48 the photograph
of George Joanna T's that mr. Morley did
obtain through his foi a request would
have been invaluable
had it been available to the HSC a staff
in 1977 and 1978 the CIA repeatedly told
the HSC a that they had no contact with
dr e in 1963 the leaders of the d-r-e
however told members of the HSC a staff
that they had and CIA case officer in
1963 who went by the name of Howard had
the HSC a staff had that photograph in
1978 it would have led to an
identification of George Jo and edie's
then Jefferson Morley after obtaining
the photograph through his foi a request
showed the photograph to three surviving
members of the d-r-e Louis Roca
Jose Antonio lanuza and Manuel sabot who
each individually and separately
identified the photograph as the CIA
case officer known to them as Howard in
1963 the identification of the
photograph provides independent
confirmation of Joanna DZ's assignment
in 1963 and prevents further
prevarication on the issue by the CIA
thereby settling an issue of significant
public interest in the JFK investigation
forty nine after David at Lee Phillips
testified a second time before the HSC a
an executive session on April 25 1978
several staff members myself included
sought to have the chief counsel
recommend to the committee that it
referred mr. Phillips to the Justice
Department for prosecution for lying to
Congress that was not done while
recommendations were made to the Justice
Department at the close of the
committee's work regard
further investigations none of the
recommendations referred to mr. Phillips
or his activities had we known then what
we have learned since 1978 about mr.
Phillips and mr. Johnny D's activities I
firmly believe that the results would
have been much different than they were
I believe that at a minimum the
information would have led to a lying to
Congress charge against David at Lee
Phillips and a strong recommendation
that the activities of the CIA George
Joanna DS David at Lee Phillips and Lee
Harvey Oswald in New Orleans Dallas and
Mexico City be subjected to further
additional intense investigation such is
the nature of the information
consequently I think it should be clear
that the information sought by mr.
Morley in his July 4 2003 FOI a request
that specifically dealt with the
underlying facts from 1963 and the CIA's
active cover-up of that information in
1978 are of the greatest possible public
interest while revelation of that
information cannot have the same effect
it would have had in 1978 or 1963 it
continues to be of great historical
interest as well as being of great
practical and political import to the
nature and functioning of our democracy
I declare under penalty of perjury that
the foregoing is true and correct
executed this 25th day of April 2016
dan L hardway
you